# LibraryMS

In conventional library, the manual process of maintaining user records, book records, account details, and managing librarians is extremely difficult. A user may encounter issues such as locating a specific book, determining whether the book is available or not, determining how long the book will be available etc. Before acquiring a library card, they have to wait. They have to point out their library card and wait in a line to issue a book. The librarian also has to look manually on which day which user issued which book. To eliminate this manual burden, we proposed a system called Library Management System (LMS). LMS will handle all the limitations faced by the users and librarians. Thanks to technological advances, organizing a library has become much easier. The Library Management System is created to automate the operations performed on data relating to users, book problems, and other operations. This automation of library helps in several instances of its maintenances. It eases management's workload by automating the majority of manual tasks. It has an admin login feature, which allows the administrator to keep track of the entire system. This Library Management System can only be accessed by authorized users. After logging in, a user can see list of books that have been added in the library, as well as their issue and return dates.

Overall, the goal of this project is to help librarians manage their libraries in the best possible way while minimizing human effort.
